docs: add irsa config (#1203)
defenseunicorns/uds-core: docs/reference/configuration/external dependencies/irsa-configuration.md

> ---

Author: Open to suggestions on the directory structure that I went with. I figured that as we document support for more environments/cloud providers that the `External Dependencies` section could grow.

Reviewer: I think this makes a lot of sense, like you mentioned might be a good starting place to encourage more documentation for other related things.

Reviewer 2: I think I like this - can already see a good place for an overview doc with the required and optional dependencies for each core app (i.e. object storage, postgres, redis). May have some overlap with the [current HA doc](http://localhost:4321/reference/configuration/resource-configuration-and-ha/).

> title: Configure UDS Core to Use IAM Roles for Service Accounts (IRSA) 

Reviewer 2: Not totally opposed to this but I wonder if we can shorten the title. On the docs site preview it looks a bit long on the sidebar and title imo. Maybe `IRSA Support` or something similar?

![Screenshot 2025-01-17 at 3 01 52 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ad2ff865-56c4-4397-a771-10dc6678629b)

Author: updated title!

---

Several applications within UDS Core can be configured to utilize resources that are external to your Kubernetes cluster, such as object storage and databases. If you are running in AWS, you can leverage [IRSA](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) to provide applications within UDS Core with a secure means of accessing external resources.

The following applications in UDS Core that support IRSA are:
- [Loki](#loki)
- [Velero](#velero)

:::note

> There may be additional applications in UDS Core that are not mentioned in this list that support IRSA. Only the applications listed above have been validated to work within UDS Core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There may be additional applications in UDS Core that are not mentioned in this list that support IRSA. Only the applications listed above have been validated for IRSA support within UDS Core.
```
Maybe just my reading but `to work` feels more generic than the intent of "only these have been validated with IRSA".

:::

This guide will cover how to configure IRSA for each application. 

## Prerequisites

> Configuring IRSA requires that you have confifgured an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster. Refer to the IRSA [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) for more information.

Reviewer: nit: typo 
```suggestion
Configuring IRSA requires that you have configured an IAM OIDC provider for your cluster. Refer to the IRSA [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/enable-iam-roles-for-service-accounts.html) for more information.
```

You must also create IAM Roles and Policies for each application. Refer to the IRSA [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/eks/latest/userguide/associate-service-account-role.html) for more information.

## Bundle Configuration
Configuring applications within UDS Core to use IRSA requires that you declare overrides in UDS Bundle configuration. Below are the necessary overrides for each application.

:::note
The examples below are not exhaustive representations of all of the values you will need to supply to configure external storage.
:::

:::note
The examples below declare new `variables` for IRSA Role ARN annotations, allowing for these values to be passed in dynamically via `uds-config.yaml` as opposed to being hardcoded as `overrides`.

> :::

Reviewer 2: nit: the back to back note blocks feels weird, does it make sense to combine these?

### Loki
Loki can be configured to use IRSA by setting the following overrides in your `uds-bundle.yaml`:

```yaml
packages:  
  - name: core
    repository: oci://ghcr.io/defenseunicorns/packages/uds/core
    ref: x.x.x
    overrides:
      loki:
        loki:
          # Override default values set in uds-core-loki package
          values:
            - path: loki.storage.s3.endpoint
              value: ""
            - path: loki.storage.s3.secretAccessKey
              value: ""
            - path: loki.storage.s3.accessKeyId
              value: ""
          # Declare new variable for IRSA Role ARN
          variables:
            - name: LOKI_IRSA_ROLE_ARN
              description: "ARN of Loki IAM Role to annotate Loki ServiceAccount with."

>               # Maps to Loki's helm values for SerivceAccount annotations:

Reviewer: super nit: typo
```suggestion
              # Maps to Loki's helm values for ServiceAccount annotations:
```

>               # See https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/production/helm/loki/values.yaml#L733

Reviewer 2: nit: should be a pinned tag/sha reference to make sure the line number doesn't change on us

Author: agree, fixed this for both charts

              path: serviceAccount.annotations.eks\.amazonaws\.com/role-arn              
```

Next, in your `uds-config.yaml`, supply a value for `LOKI_IRSA_ROLE_ARN`:

```yaml
variables:
  core:
    loki_irsa_role_arn: "<iam-role-arn>"
```

### Velero
Velero can be configured to use IRSA by setting the following overrides in your `uds-bundle.yaml`:

```yaml
packages:  
  - name: core
    repository: oci://ghcr.io/defenseunicorns/packages/uds/core
    ref: x.x.x
    overrides:
      velero:
        velero:
          # Override default values set in uds-core-velero package
          values:
            - path: credentials.useSecret
              value: false      
          # Declare new variable for IRSA Role ARN
          variables:
            - name: VELERO_IRSA_ROLE_ARN
              description: "IRSA ARN annotation to use for Velero"

>               # Maps to Velero's helm values for SerivceAccount annotations:

Reviewer: same as above, super nit: typo
```suggestion
              # Maps to Velero's helm values for ServiceAccount annotations:
```
